Docs: Document Apollo in Faust (#1241)
wpengine/faustjs: internal/faustjs.org/docs/apollo.mdx

description: Perform declarative queries with Apollo to manipulate and structure data
---

### Using Apollo in Faust

Faust.js uses `@apollo/client` under the hood for its GraphQL client.

You can use the client as usual in your components and pages. Take the following example:

Your app queries the `title` and `description` from `generalSettings`:

```jsx title="Your App"
import { gql, useQuery } from '@apollo/client';

export default function Page(props) {
  const { data } = useQuery(Page.query);
  const { title, description } = data.generalSettings;
  return(
    <h1>{title}</h1>
    <p>{description}</p>
  )
}

Page.query = gql`
  query {
    generalSettings {
      title
      description
    }
  }
`
```

It co-locates the GraphQL query within the same file. You can also import it from a file.

The benefit with Faust is that you don't have to create the client object in your codebase. It is automatically created when you first import the

> `@faustwp-core` package. Instead you can customize it by using a [plugin filter](http://localhost:3000/docs/plugin-system/filters).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@faustwp-core` package. Instead you can customize it by using a [plugin filter](https://faustjs.org/docs/plugin-system/filters).
```
